So we left off last with the auth form
where we created the auth form and
added it to the pages,
the sign in page and the register page.
Now we need to actually
make the API routes and
all the utility functions necessary
to make the auth form work.
So we can get in our app, so
let's take a look at that.
So like always gonna head over to
the notes here you go, take a look at.
So we did the pages now if you go look at
this next one, we're going to focus on
passwords because when we wrote
the seed script we just went ahead and
just put plain text passwords in there
which you know for obvious reasons we
don't want plain text passwords in
the database so we need to be able to hash
those passwords and check those passwords
for sign in and things like that.
So that's what we need to do.
So we're going to make some utility
functions that we're going to use inside
of our API handlers that are all form
is going to make API calls to so
we can sign in and register.
So let's do that.
So first things first is,
to get to this code,
And if you remember how
I organize my code,
I like to just put separate things out.
So in my lib folder,
we have this API we have this DB,
I'm gonna get another one for auth.
Like that.
And then inside of here, we're gonna use
bcrypt from a package called bcrypt.
And this other package called Jose for
something called, for JSON web tokens,
which we'll get to later.
But mostly we're just gonna use
bcrypt here to hash passwords and
compare those passwords.
So let's do that.
So we're just gonna import bcrypt and
it should already be installed.
If not, go ahead and install it.
And I'm going to add a function here,
hash password, like so.
And it's just going to be bcrypt.hash.
Hash It's gonna take in a plaintext
password is its only argument or a hash.
That's my thoughts.
And I believe, yeah,
this takes like how many
rounds of salting you want to do there?
And that's it.
It's pretty simple.
This is also async by default so when we
use hash password we'll have to await it
because it's got to happen
asynchronously and not synchronously.
This thing is frequent I guess.
Maybe I don't have bcrypt.
I'll just install it
just in case let's see or
maybe just wants the types,
yeah it just wants the types for i.
I thought they fixed this with an
automatic that happens forever [INAUDIBLE]
Maybe not, all right.
Of course.
So we got hash password,
that's what we gonna use for sign up.
But for
sign in we gonna compare the passwords.
We are going to take the plain text
password that you post on the form and
we are going to compare with the hash
password for the users.safe.
If they both match when both hash
then you typed in the right password.
If they don't, then you didn't.
So that's what we're going to do now.
So compare passwords like that.
And this one's just gonna take,
like I said, a plain text password and
then the hashed password that
should be saved in a database and
we're just gonna compare them.
So we'll just say clean
text password here and
then hashed password here.
And I'm just gonna return
bcrypt dot compare like that.
And we're just gonna take
the end plain text and
then the hashed like that and
me export that.
Any questions on those two functions?
Nothing unique to.
It's very common in Node too.
This pattern with bcrypt yeah.
>> So
with the async versus sync functions,
is there a reason why we choose one or
the other?
Like, do we want to do something
while it's awaiting or?
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
The question was the difference
between sync and async.
Why would we choose one over the other?
Typically, in Node.js,
you probably want to use async for
most of the things because synchronous
things are blocking the thread.
That's because by default, Node is
single threaded, as in, It can only,
it can't run like things in parallel
across multiple threads, but
it can do them in the background, because
of just the nature of how JavaScript is
as far as like, you know,
the async queue and things like that.
So when we think there is some
type of somewhat difficult
computational work like hashing.
If you can make that async without
blocking the thread that will enable you
and your server, to take in more requests
while that's actually happening whereas if
this was synchronous and I don't know
let's say this thing took forever,
you were trying to compute, you know, some
algorithms on a chessboard or something.
And it took a long time.
You couldn't get any more requests to
come in and your server would stall.
Granted, I know we're using serverless,
and that's not the case here because each
function each serverless
invocation is its own instance and
it doesn't block another
one from happening.
So we don't have to worry about that.
But you should probably still do things
async when you can and not synchronous.
It is also noted that you can spawn up
multiple threads in Node.js as well,
but by default, that's not enabled.
Cool.
Any other questions?
Okay, because this file,
auth.js, or auth.ts,
is going to be used on the server,
there's a chance that it could be
imported in a server component somehow,
maybe not directly,
maybe indirectly through
a module dependency tree.
Because of that,
we have to tell Next.js that there's
gonna be a dependency that needs to be
enabled in that server environment.
So Next.js allows us to use it.
And the way we can do that is if
we go down to our next config.
You can see that there's a property
here called server components
external packages.
That's exactly what it sounds like.
It's external packages that we want
to use in our server components.
And like I said, this file might be
used in a server component eventually.
It will be used in the server
component eventually.
So we'll have to add that here.
If you don't, whenever your server
component tries to import that file,
it's gonna behave as if you've
never installed that module.
The Next.js team is getting
together a list of commonly
used modules and
adding them to this by default.
For instance, I know when version 13 came
out, Prisma was not added, so you had to
add it here, but now I think it's added by
default, so you don't have to add Prisma.
So, that's probably why if you
did some of the Prisma stuff,
you didn't run into any errors
because it's already added.
But for safety, you can add it as well.
So, that list will probably keep growing,
I'm sure.
So server components run on the server,
but they also run in like a somewhat
contained environment on the server
that Next.js is in charge of.
So it's like yes,
you get full access to everything.
But you just need to make sure
that Next.js is okay with it.
There's also still some bugs where
server component environment
thinks that thinks that serverless
functions are client components.
So if you tried to import some
server component code inside of
a handler API handler, it might think
that handler is a client component.
So there's some things
still happening there.
But, I don't think we're right
into that problem today, yes.
>> So, here looks like
you're including that line,
in experimental but
>> Yes, did I?
Yeah, I didn't move it up one,
thanks, sorry.